README.md, before:

# Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N


The Rock7 RockBLOCK 9603N in Qwiic format


**! WORK IN PROGRESS !**

![Dimensions](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Dimensions.png)

![Top](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Top.JPG)

![Bottom](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Bottom.JPG)

The Eagle files are available in the [Eagle folder](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/tree/master/Eagle)

The schematic is available [here](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Schematic.png)

## Acknowledgements

This project would not have been possible without the open source designs kindly provided by SparkFun. Their work is gratefully acknowledged.

Feel like supporting open source hardware? Buy a board from SparkFun!

## Licence

This project is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution + Share-alike (BY-SA) licence.
Please refer to section 5 of the licence for the "Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability".

Enjoy!

**_Paul_**

Commit message:

Updated the PCB and included the Arduino code

README.md, after:

# Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N


The Rock7 RockBLOCK 9603N in Qwiic format


###**! WORK IN PROGRESS !**

![Dimensions](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Dimensions.png)

![Top](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Top.JPG)

![Bottom](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Bottom.JPG)

The Eagle files are available in the [Eagle folder](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/tree/master/Eagle)

The schematic is available [here](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/blob/master/img/Schematic.png)

The [Arduino folder](https://github.com/PaulZC/Qwiic_RockBLOCK_9603N/tree/master/Arduino) contains the **untested** code for the ATtiny84

## Acknowledgements

This project would not have been possible without the open source designs kindly provided by SparkFun. Their work is gratefully acknowledged.

Feel like supporting open source hardware? Buy a board from SparkFun!

## Licence

This project is distributed under a Creative Commons Attribution + Share-alike (BY-SA) licence.
Please refer to section 5 of the licence for the "Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability".

Enjoy!

**_Paul_**
